Welcome back glorious God.
People in this video we're going to take the concept of a tile map which is that thing we see there's
platforms and Hoppy days and make them more awesome.
Instead of picking which time we want to use God will pick it for us.
Now there's a pro in a con situation going on here.
Tile maps or auto tiles rather are awesome for a number of reasons.
Once they're set up they make making the levels much faster and much simpler.
On top of that you could put collision occlusion and navigation all in one place.
On the downside the initial set up is fiddly and time consuming and the initial set up is fiddly and
time consuming.
And look I know I've written the same thing three times but it's a big point.
I thought it was worth making properly.
That said auto tiles are really quite fun.
So let's make one do that we need a new scene.
The beginning of the process is going to be just like setting up a time lapse the first thing I need
is a Node 2 D My root node.
I can't put a sprite.
It has to be a note hoodie running this on a nameless walls.
Now let's the child know that's going to be a Sprite and if you look under the graphics defects you'll
find spec sheet and tile sheet.
We care about touch it.
There's actually two versions here.
There's a double sized one and a single one I'm asking is the single one but if you have some crazy
screen resolution where everything tiny.
By all means use the double sized one.
So I'm going to drag that picture that pian G into the texture.
OK.
Nice any Let's save this scene so save and that goes and scenes and can be called walls.
Right now what's going to happen is I'm going to need an auto tile for some of these walls.
I'm going to use these orange ones here.
You could if you preferred these big concrete blocks or these little concrete walls or these wooden
wars.
If you want a tile map with four separate Orta tiles for all these you wouldn't need to duplicate the
sprites.
Each Sprite can be its own town map.
However I only want one.
So I'm just doing one.
You notice there's a single P G with all of the tiles from this asset back including the ones I haven't
put in.
This is a really great way of saving space right.
You don't need to put hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of pages and Jay pegs in your game.
You can use a single Sprite sheet wincing or touch it.
OK.
Let's actually make this a touchy so I'm going to scene convert to tile set and I'm going to make a
new folder I call a tile sets militarism I wrote follow it it's going to call this auto tile walls dot
t r e s.
I have to do dot T Yes.
If I don't do that it'll tell me need an extension.
So dot texture.
Ressource.
OK.
Save that.
Close it.
How do we actually bring this in again.
Well in level 1 let's add a new note and this is going to be a tile map just like you did with hollidays.
I'm going to rename Tom up walls now let's put in the actual taso two ways I can do this.
I can go back to my tile sets folder.
Let me in and drag it that way.
Or if you prefer drop down arrow load file it that way and there it is.
At the moment this is not an auto type.
This is the time and a pretty bad time that right.
That's not what we want.
Let's convert this into an auto type.
If we click on the name of the tart's you'll see that each time we've included which in this case is
one we've only included a single tile which what's called 0 has its own information.
If we click on is auto tile.
Things start changing.
Now let's click on where it says Orta tiles down here and set this up.
First thing this sprite in the corner is just for the person using the auto tile so it's not for the
players for us so we can see which to tie we doing.
We can set an icon for that the icon for the wall set.
Going to be using.
If you want to old wooden ones you could do that.
I would do this.
Next thing you notice is we have some options here starting at the bottom tile size 64 pixels by 6 or
pixels.
That happens to be the size of each one of these tiles so that's perfect.
I'm not changing that spacing zero.
They're connected.
There is no space between them so I don't need to add any spacing bit mask mode.
Now this is important.
Let's talk about bit mask real quick.
The way Order tiling works is it splits each tile into a small section so we could sink a single tile
like the square here and split into two by two grid or into a three by three grid.
And then what's going to happen is as we draw it it's going to look for where the connecting tiles are
and try and pick the best one based on their shape.
3 by 3 gives us more precision and I'm going to be using that to demonstrate that here.
If I click on if I use the two by two bit mask.
Here's how much of actual control I have.
Not a great deal.
Now we could use this.
But I'm losing quite a lot of detail so I'm going to use this nice broomed thing to clean up and switch
it back to a three by three.
I want to scroll a bit.
My scrollbars missing.
That's fortunate because I have to tell you how to fix that bug.
If you zoom in and out again or out and in again the scroll ball come back.
So let's zoom in.
I only want to look at the bits I want to look at.
By the way we don't need all of these right.
So if you looked down here these ones down here won't be used These are half tiles.
Each of my tiles is the full length so I'm not going to worry about these ones.
I'm also not aware about all of these pillars because they'll all have the same bit mask information.
I'm just left clicking there to put these in and if I do that it'll also between them which isn't really
what I want.
If I use these round ones I'm going to have to set up circular collision which is a bit of a pain so
I'm not gonna use those any of these to square ones.
This one will look more like pillers but the college might be a little off.
But you know what I might use anyway.
OK so we need to set up the bit masking what I want to do is I'm going to use left click to draw everywhere
that this wall is now there is actually a wall texture here.
This grey is very close to this blue but everywhere there's grey is where there's bit masking.
It's not where there's collision.
It's just so God can calculate what the connecting tiles what shape.
Part of what should I look like.
So I'm just going to fill all these in and speed up the video while I do it.
Q And that should be all of them now.
If you make a mistake let see Miss up the square here.
It's going to lead to some errors don't work if it does just go back in.
Fix it safe your scene and then when you go back in it should update automatically.
In fact let's put words error errors in so I can show what that looks like.
So as an error you see there's this little grey bit missing.
If I click on my walls I can draw.
And I've managed to pick an area that one should show up so let's pick a different error.
How are you look at error.
OK so when I'm drawing I'm going to get strange effects like this one right.
And what's happening is it's cycling between solid walls that look one way and another to fix that.
I see to go back into auto tile.
Find that error.
And then just edit those tiles and they should all come back nice and easy.
OK so that's our room.
Go start with a real room let's start with a nice simple.
Rectangular a room with some details in it.
Perfect creeper in and close that I'll get one hit play.
Couple of things you notice.
One can actually see where the walls are right because this background colour happens to be the same
colour as the wall too.
There's no collision yet.
Let's fix the first problem first.
Also let's put the war work as you see it there.
We're going to project the settings somewhere in here figuring where it is and the environment default
click colour and switch to black just so I can see it.
Now these walls actually pop so I press play.
Much better.
Second thing I need to put some collection in.
Well actually I've messed up that I can let's change that I can.
What a title.
I can't.
Is that correct.
OK.
How do we talk religion.
This is the fiddly bit.
So if I press the coalition tab you'll see we have some more options.
The bad news is I can't just paint like I did with this mask on.
Hon the button down and nothing's happening.
I need to set the collision for each tile individually.
There is no way of automating that out of the box that you have to write a tool to do that for you.
However because every single time I'm using is going to have the same collision I can take some shortcuts
if I press this grid button here I'm going to change the grid looks like I can change my steps to 64
by 64.
I don't need my collision to be smaller than that because each tile is going to have full collision.
Let's zoom in and show how this works.
If I press the polygon button I can draw this.
This is that cyan turquoise where I can draw this line because I've set it to be the same size of the
square.
I have to go close to the corner and click.
And all of these four things on the corner.
If I set the type.
Step two three two by three two it puts in guidelines or click on the next tile and you can see here
it's letting me make different collision.
I made a mistake.
I don't want that collision someone to press this little business trash thing is going back to 64 by
64.
And I'm going to put collision in for everything that has a mask anything that doesn't have a bit masked
isn't going to be you.
So these ones don't count.
But the rest of them do.
So take a second so I'll speed up the video and you can watch me do it in fast motion is like slow motion
the difference.
And last one.
Okay.
If I hit save It's now done.
It's not difficult.
It's just fiddling and time consuming but that's all in now and everything's looking good.
So save that.
And now I just go into the auto tile and scan hit this little save button as well just to be sure.
Now if I press play.
You'll notice we now have collision.
OK so there was quite a lot of initial set up.
But let's take a look at why that's amazing.
Let's remove some of this Valis remove all of it.
And put a couple of pillars there as well.
Sped up a bit so you didn't have to watch me pull around too much.
There we go.
And I won't put a camera on the place we can follow around sir.
Camera tuley member said it is current or it's useless and I want to press play.
We actually have a working level has collision in all of these corners built in.
Now if we wanted to spend a little extra time and not do such a blocky game there are ways we could
do that but because we're doing quite up a block based top down stealth game this is already awesome.
Later on in the course quite soon in fact we're going to look at lights and how to put lights and shadows
in occlusion.
And we're going to have to put the occlusion in just like we did the collisions can be a little time
consuming.
What was the set up.
Everything will then be completely scalable we can make dozens of levels of we want to very quickly
with lots of tweak them very quickly if you needed to you could give the player the ability to add and
remove things in games so you could use auto tiling to do a digging system or a crafting system any
kind of building system.
Really cool stuff.
So that brings me the challenge.
I'd like you to use auto tiling to make a small test area.
Try playing with some rooms and corridors.
Don't forget you can add a camera to your player if you need to just remember to set as count.
And then when you've done that Shea a test level of luck to see the kinds of the signs you're making.
If you're doing several types of auto thailin one tile map remember each one is going to have to have
its own separate Sprite.
If you try and put all the different ones with in one Sprite within one tile it's going to alternate
between the different walls you have so you have concrete and wooden walls mixed randomly together it's
going to look very odd.
So pause the video make yourself a quick little level share it.
And when you come back we'll close this video.
Welcome back.
We covered quite a lot in this video.
We've taken the concept of titlemax from Hobby days and made a much more versatile auto title.
And there really is quite what you could do here.
We've looked at how you used to buy two or three by three bit masks.
And when we'd want to use which one and we've looked at setting up collision in Alter tile quite a lot
of work some of it's quite fiddly but really great stuff.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.